# React-Redux Template (Work in Progress)

This template is extended from [redux-realworld example](https://github.com/reactjs/redux/tree/master/examples/real-world) which is built with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app), and has been extended to support jest, eslint, scss and different asyncchronous API method types. Flow integration is a KIV.

Projects built with Create-React-App include support for ES6 syntax, as well as several unofficial / not-yet-final forms of Javascript syntax such as Class Properties and JSX.  See the list of [language features and polyfills supported by Create-React-App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#supported-language-features-and-polyfills) for more information.

## Getting Started

### `npm install`

to install all the dependencies required by this template.

### `npm start`

to run the app in the development mode.

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm run build`

to build the app for production to the `build` folder.

It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.
Your app is ready to be deployed!

## Tools and Libraries Integrated

### [React](https://reactjs.org/)

### [Redux](https://redux.js.org/docs/introduction/)

### [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)

### [SCSS](http://sass-lang.com/)

### [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)

### [Jest](https://facebook.github.io/jest/)

## Template Structure

### `config`

contains configuration files generated by create-react-app by default which contains configurations of ENV, path and [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)

### `scripts`

contains the scripts that are runnable via `npm`. The list of command available can be checked in [package.json](/package.json)'s scripts section.

### `src`

contains the source code and has the folder structure like so

### `src` Folder Breakdown

#### [actions](/src/actions)

This folder contains all the redux action creators. In redux, reducers are meant to be simple and business logic belongs in action-creators.

#### [components](/src/components)

This folder contains all the dumb/presentational components and are concerned with **how things look**. They are encouraged to be just pure functional components that do not have states on their own but receive props parents from their respective parent smart components to receive data and callbacks for optimal performance. Learn the differences between react components [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40703675/react-functional-stateless-component-purecomponent-component-what-are-the-dif). If you wanna know why stateless functional components or Pure components are better presentational components, read [here](https://hackernoon.com/react-stateless-functional-components-nine-wins-you-might-have-overlooked-997b0d933dbc) and [here](https://medium.com/@gajus/this-is-misleading-f1de2b4a06ca).

#### [containers](/src/containers)

This folder contains all the smart components. Smart components are the medium between redux store and react components are concerned with **how things work**. They are the wrapper/parent components of the presentational components and there should not be any DOM markup (e.g, `<p>` or `<input />` tags) but rather a few wrapping `<div>` tags and should not have any styles either. Smart components are usually the wrapper components for each individual URL endpoints (For example, `UserPage` is for `/:username` and `RepoPage` is for `/:username/:reponame`).

#### [middleware](/src/middleware)

This folder contains all the custom [Redux middlewares](https://redux.js.org/docs/advanced/Middleware.html).  Redux middlewares in short provides a third-party extension point between dispatching an action, and the moment it reaches the reducer and commonly used for logging, crash reporting, communicating with asynchronous API, etc. In this template, instead of dispatching every status of an asynchronous API request (REQUEST, SUCCESS, FAILURE) in the action creators similar to this [example](https://github.com/reactjs/redux/blob/master/examples/async/src/actions/index.js), [api.js](/src/middleware/api.js) dispatches those actions for every APIs to avoid duplicate code.

#### [reducers](/src/reducers)

It's important to understand that your entire application really only has one single reducer function: the function that you've passed into createStore as the first argument.
However, since redux reducers are just functions that generally update the state of the app, they can be split into different files for maintainability. Here in this template, [index.js](/src/reducers/index.js) is the `root reducer` that combines all the `slice reducers` such as [entities.js](/src/reducers/entities.js). Read more about splitting the reducers [here](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/reducers/SplittingReducerLogic.html).

#### [store](/src/store)

Store contains the files responsible for the redux initial redux store creation and the integration of middlewares into the store.

#### [styles](/src/styles)

This folder contains all the scss files that do not have direct relationships with the components. For example, styles for the overall individual page do not have a direct relationship with the components that make up the page and therefore, are defined in this folder. For styling of individual components, we can create a `.scss` file on the same directory level together with the respective component.

## Workflow example

### Scanario 1 (Fetching and displaying user data)

#### Create fetchUser API

Create a function called `fetchUser` in [github.js](/src/apis/github.js) and configure and returns the neccessary parameters, `endpoint` and `meta`. In this example, the `endpoint` will be `users/:login` and we can ignore the `meta` attribute since it's only a normal `GET` request. So we can do like so.

``` javascript
// apis/github.js

export const fetchUser = login => ({ endpoint: `users/${login}` })
```

#### Create a schema for the response data

For better data management, we need to create a schema model for the objects returned from the API response. The template uses [normalizr](https://github.com/paularmstrong/normalizr) and you can learn more about how to normalize data and how normalizing data helps to scale in redux state management. Here in this example, since the return data is a `User` object and the ID will be its login(username). Therefore, we can create a schema like so in [User.js](/src/schemas/User.js)

``` javascript
// schemas/User.js

export default new schema.Entity('users', {}, {
  idAttribute: user => user.login.toLowerCase()
})
```

[index.js](/src/schemas/index.js) serves as an interface that combines all the `schemas` into one, so that all the file that requires to import schemas can import like `import { User } from '<path>/schemas/` without needing to import schemas from individual schema file. So, we need to include the new schema there and export the schema in that [index.js](/src/schemas/index.js).

``` javascript

// schemas/index.js

import User from './User'

export const Schemas = {
  USER: User,
  USER_ARRAY: [User], // An array of user objects
  ...otherSchemas
}
```

#### Create an action

Create function called `loadUser` in this example and checks whether the user has already been loaded in the `redux store`. If the user has never been loaded before, dispatch `fetchUser action` to call the `fetchUser API` mentioned above. It can be done like so,

``` javascript
// actions/github.js

const fetchUser = login => ({
  // Extra attributes can be passed along here (See fetchStargazers action for example)
  [CALL_API]: {
    types: [ ActionTypes.USER_REQUEST, ActionTypes.USER_SUCCESS, ActionTypes.USER_FAILURE ], // actions to indicate the status of the API call
    ...GitHubAPI.fetchUser(login), // contains endpoint and meta attributes
    schema: Schemas.USER // Schemas for the response data
  }
})

export const loadUser = (login, requiredFields = []) => (dispatch, getState) => {

  // Check if a user is already cached and do nothing if true
  const user = getState().entities.users[login]
  if (user && requiredFields.every(key => user.hasOwnProperty(key))) {
    return null
  }

  return dispatch(fetchUser(login))
}
```

do remember to declare the neccessary action constant values in [actionTypes](/src/constants/actionTypes.js)

#### Create a reducer

[entities.js](/src/reducers/entities.js) is to store all the data objects by their IDs and
[pagination.js](/src/reducers/pagination.js) is to store the array of IDs of those data objects so that we can iterate easily and display as a list where neccessary. We do not have to do anything in `entities.js` since it simply merges all the newly received entities into the redux store. We do not have to do anything in the `pagination.js` either since there is no list involved in the response data.

**for the case of `fetchStarred`, since it returns a list of `Repos`, we need to provide a key to form an array that is linked to the specific account that starred repos are related to like so

``` javascript
  starredByUser: paginate({
    // login will the id that links to the array of starred repos by that logged in user.
    mapActionToKey: action => action.login,
    types: [
      ActionTypes.STARRED_REQUEST,
      ActionTypes.STARRED_SUCCESS,
      ActionTypes.STARRED_FAILURE
    ]
  })
```

#### Connect redux to react via a container

[UserPage](/src/containers/UserPage) is the container and it gets the login value from the URL (Redux-router) and load the data based on its value. The simplest form of UserPage would be like this

``` javascript
import User from '../components/common/User'

class UserPage extends Component {
  static propTypes = {
      login: PropTypes.string.isRequired,
      user: PropTypes.object,
      loadUser: PropTypes.func.isRequired,
    }
  }

  componentWillMount() {
    loadUser(this.props.login, ['name'])
  }

  componentWillReceiveProps(nextProps) {
    if (nextProps.login !== this.props.login) {
      loadData(nextProps)
    }
  }
  render() {
    const { user, login } = this.props

    if (!user) {
      return <h1><i>Loading {login}{"'s profile..."}</i></h1>
    }

    return (
      <User user={user} />
    )
  }
}

// map redux state to the component's prop
const mapStateToProps = (state, ownProps) => {
  const login = ownProps.match.params.login.toLowerCase()
  const { entities: { users } } = state
  return { login, user: users[login] }
}

// withRouter to connect with redux-router
export default withRouter(connect(mapStateToProps, {
  loadUser
})(UserPage))
```

#### Create components

Create stateless components to display the data. See [User.js](components/common/User.js) for how to write components. Recommended not to have any states

#### Styling components

You can style the components by creating a scss file on the same level as the component and import the stylesheet file from the component.
For basic tutorial of SCSS can be found [here](https://scotch.io/tutorials/getting-started-with-sass)

## Extras

For large scale production app, [sound-redux](https://github.com/andrewngu/sound-redux) is a well-known open source react project.

For JS project guidelines, read [here](https://github.com/wearehive/project-guidelines)

## References

- [Presentational and Container Components](https://medium.com/@dan_abramov/smart-and-dumb-components-7ca2f9a7c7d0)

- [Normalizing State Shape](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/reducers/NormalizingStateShape.html)

- [Redux Middlewares](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/advanced/Middleware.html)

- [Testing](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/recipes/WritingTests.html)

- [Splitting Reducer Logic](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/reducers/SplittingReducerLogic.html)

- [Refactoring Reducers Example](https://redux.js.org/docs/recipes/reducers/RefactoringReducersExample.html)
